# NLA_Final_Project
Numerical Linear Algebra Final Project
The problem of identification is a prevalent one in the modern age. Given some unaltered raw data, being able to classify that data is an idea broad enough that it applies to multiple fields. One of the best examples of the problem is in the form of species classification. Being able to identify and separate species has provided benefit to humans from understanding which animals are aggressive and need to be avoided or which animals are safe to consume.


However, one thing to note about how animals are identified, is that a lot of it is done through visualization. Obviously it is very easy to tell the difference between a cat and a whale while comparing the two, but what about a White-lipped bright-eyed frog vs a gladiator tree frog? In order to figure out the differences between the two one has to look at the physical variances such as colors, skin texture, and size in order to get a good guess. However, this form of identification is not without issues. For example, one has to be trained how to do this in order to do it efficiently. Another issue is that it takes time in order to identify important features when the species are extremely similar and might require some external information(like an animal encyclopedia). Overall, the trying to only use visual notes to differentiate may not be the best.


Our project attempts to perform this identification from a different perspective and tries to focus more on an auditory-based classification. The idea here is that given a set of wav files of just unaltered animals in the wild, we want to use FFT in order to clean up the audio and isolate only the animal sounds. This will allow us to build up a database of animals that we can search through. When given the audio clip of an animal, we also want to use FFT to clean up that audio and at that point we will search through our database and find the audio with the least amount of error and matches the input audio the most and classify the input as the species which matches said audio. This will allow species identification to be completed by someone who has never done any type of speciation learning. We also want to see if it how efficient it is to do so with a smaller data set, so currently we are only looking at identification for frog species.
